---
layout: post
title: Pay it Forward
date: 2013-01-12 22:10:00.000Z
description: helping others
categories: work
---

<p>If you've been making games for a while you've probably come across someone who aspires to do what you do. You've met these folks at user groups, or through friends or they work in other departments at your job. These people look up to you, no matter your level or interest in helping them out. As experienced developers I think it's our duty to help these folks out. I think this should be part of our career paths and yearly review goals. </p>

<p>Here's why.   </p>

<ul>
<li>Most likely you can't pay back the people who helped you when you started. So, like Haley Joel says, you should pay it forward.  </li>
<li>Maybe you think "no one ever helped me" and "I did this on my own". I'm calling bullshit on that. Somewhere, someone gave you an opportunity. However big or small. To your credit you capitalized on it, but you had a window provided by another. People who shut down others wind up being the <a href="http://altdevblog.com/2011/02/09/an-open-letter-to-game-developers/">jerk-face</a> developers that can't work with anyone and wind up leaving the team one way or the other.</li>
<li>New people bring fresh ideas and new ways of tackling problems. Fresh eyes are essential. This topic deserves a post all it's own. Maybe next time.</li>
</ul>

<p>Are you on board with this? Are you asking how you can help? Here are some thoughts, I'd love to hear your ideas too.</p>

<p><strong>Are you are seeking people to help?</strong> <br />
Go to just one user group meeting and meet some people. Everyone has busy schedules with work, family and social lives.  However, all it takes is one meeting. Meet and get to know people. Exchange your preferred contact method and follow up. This is networking 101.</p>

<p>Twitter has been a great resource for sharing information and active constructive criticism and feedback. Find the hashtags relevant to the topics you're interested in. You don't even need to register or post if you don't want to. Start <a href="https://support.twitter.com/articles/215585">here</a>.</p>

<p>I've had very meaningful conversations that are relevant to my work on social media. Most recently I was able to explain a problem to a select group of people I've never even met, but know by reputation and their kindness on these social media circles. They provided honest, clear and meaningful feedback that I was able to immediately use in my work. I am very grateful for their time and the opportunity for us to interact. Thanks again Rob, Seth and Tim. You can do these same things to mentor people. Start a conversation. It only take a couple minutes, every once and a while.</p>

<p><strong>If you already know some people looking for advice.</strong> <br />
Meet them at events or send an email or even better comment on their own blog post. Again, this is quick and easy to do. It just takes a little time. For the Junior people on staff, and/or the folks in other departments hoping to transfer, find the answers in the hallways. Spend 30 seconds talking to these folks in the hallway. Put them in the forefront. Ask things like "what are you working on" and "Have you been able to get any feedback from other people lately"? Give them a pointer and tell them to keep at it. That's really all it takes. These conversations go a long way. You'll see eyes light up and build a mutually respectful relationship.</p>

<p>I literally did this today with <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/timprata">Tim Prata</a>. Check out his work and give him feedback, he's pumped up on getting feedback so he can be a better artist. He's engaged and his enthusiasm is infectious. </p>

<p>Host a lunch time portfolio or code review. Get these folks in the same room with developers willing to help give feedback. Yes you sacrifice a lunch hour, but you can help give solid feedback and see people grow.  These are the people you'll probably want to hire or transfer to your team. You're building relationships before the person is even on the team. You can evaluate how they handled a task or problem in minutes. </p>

<p>It's our responsibility to help the newcomers, I don't take it lightly. What are you doing to help these people out?</p>
