---
layout: post
title: Right now
date: 2016-02-07 17:00:00.000Z
description: "Finding what is useful, and discarding the rest"
categories: "change"
---

I've been thinking a lot about Essentialism recently. What is really important to me? I've started a new job. I have more time in the day due to a lesser commute. Now I have the time to figure out what to focus on, and act on it. I have way too much stuff cluttering up my house and mind. Too many projects.

Every couple of months I read the gut-wrenching [The Five Regrets of the Dying](http://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2012/feb/01/top-five-regrets-of-the-dying). These are some of the things that I've spent too much time on, but you won't see on that list:

* I wish I spent more time on blogging software selection.
* I wish I spent more time on adjusting my blogs theme.
* I wish I spent more time looking at the projected perfect lives of people I hardly even know on Facebook.
* I wish I spent more time finding the perfect javaScript library.

**We're all on a deadline.**

We just don't know when it is. There is a point in time, where we all will die. A deadline in the most simplest form of that word. Time will run out. What the hell do we want to focus on while we are here?.

What do I want to focus on while I am here? I am not 100% sure, but I suppose the post serves as my [undsitraction](http://www.merlinmann.com/rightnow/).

I'm trying to find answers to these questions. To keep me from straying off the path, I ask myself Is this what you really want to be doing right now?

I will even go as far as to print out that question and tape it to the frame of my laptop. So when I want to go check out Facebook or some other time waster, it reminds me to focus.
